# Best practices

* [GitHub: commit (and push)](#github-commit-and-push)
    * [When should I commit to GitHub?](#when-should-i-commit-to-github)
    * [To which GitHub repository should I commit?](#to-which-github-repository-should-i-commit)
    * [To which repository branch should I commit?](#to-which-repository-branch-should-i-commit)
    * [Which files should I commit to the branch?](#which-files-should-i-commit-to-the-branch)
    * [How should I name files and folders I commit?](#how-should-i-name-files-and-folders-i-commit)
    * [How should commit messages be?](#how-should-commit-messages-be)
* [GitHub: Pull Request](#github-pull-request)
* [If you have any doubts or comments](#if-you-have-any-doubts-or-comments)

## GitHub: commit (and push)
We have seen in [Main Developer Tools](main-developer-tools.md) that GitHub is an important part of our workflow. Now let's see when and how to use it.

### When should I commit to GitHub?
Essentially, always. Whatever you are doing, as insignificant as it may seem, please upload the files to GitHub. Read on for the details.

### To which GitHub repository should I commit?
Please use one of our repositories: [Repository Index](repository-index.md).

### To which repository branch should I commit?
Please upload your work to a new branch, branching out from `develop`. This git workflow is called [GitFlow](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows/gitflow-workflow/).
* There is an exception, for pure documentation repos (as discussed at [\#6](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/developer-manual/issues/6)), where there is no `develop` branch, so just branch out from `master` instead.

### Which files should I commit to the branch?
We commented above to commit absolutely everything, as insignificant as it may seem. There are a few exceptions, please AVOID uploading (all equally important):
* Files that can be generated via other files (executables, `.pdf`...): instead, document how to generate these files (steps for compiling/installing, `pdflatex`...)
* Compressed files (e.g. `.zip`): please upload each individual file (which can be done within the same commit)
* Big files (e.g. bibliography `.pdf`, videos...): think about more appropiate mechanisms (Mendeley, Google Drive...) and instead provide links in descriptions
* Files that are auto-generated by editor programs (e.g. editor backup files such as `.swp` or `.fcstd1`)

A useful tool to avoid uploading undesired files is [.gitignore](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore): adjust it for the right project type to prevent from uploading these unwanted files.

### How should I name files and folders I commit?
* Use concise and explanatory names for your files and folders.
* Place your file inside existing folders when this makes sense, and create new folders only if required.
* DON'T ADD DIGITS to filenames as a hint of a specific version, iteration step, etc. Git is a version control that manages this internally for you. Over-write an existing file when commiting a modified version of it, and create new files only if required.
* AVOID DUPLICATES of existing files: code and documentation can and should be reused ([don't repeat yourself (DRY)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don%27t_repeat_yourself)).
* Files in `/doc` should be named using _kebab-case_.
* For C/C++ and CMake files, see specific respective conventions, below.
* As a general naming rule: be coherent with the rest of the files in that repositories (CamelCase, kebab-case, etc).
* Prefer plural in directory names at the project root: `examples`, `libraries`, `programs`, `tests`, `cmake/templates` (exception: `doc`).

### How should commit messages be?
Use a short and direct commit message that clearly states the changes made in that commit. Avoid using generic messages such as "Upload files", since they make it very hard for the repository users to track changes later on.

## GitHub: Pull Request
Whenever you feel your changes are mature enough to be merged with the main project, create a Pull Request. Your work will be reviewed and merged by the owner/admin of that repository.

## If you have any doubts or comments

Please comment publicly [HERE](https://github.com/roboticslab-uc3m/developer-manual/issues/new)
